The authors present a new modeling framework for Python, that appears similar to the framework that Julia promotes. For example, this Python framework also features JIT and "Python-centric" modeling, at least for the model definition. Overall, this work looks like a promising step in the direction of developing a Julia-like scientific ecosystem in Python for systems biology, and I can recommend it for publication.

However, there are several issues with the manuscript, which I have detailed below.

# Feedback
- Page 2, Line 30 (whole paragraph): These limitations look more like interface issues, rather than issues related to the multi-language approach
 - COPASI has Python bindings, with which a user can run a model task (e.g. simulation) with a specific parameter vector, and one can generate these vectors with `scipy.stats`. So, random parameter scans with COPASI and `scipy.stats` seems possible. BasiCO also seems to makes this easier. Why are users unable to use `scipy.stats` with COPASI?
 - Tellurium supports the Antimony format, so if a user wants to use a different solver than Tellurium provides, they can convert their Antimony model into an SBML model, then use any tool/solver they like, i.e. Tellurium can integrate into the SBML ecosystem. Is this limitation about adding solvers to Tellurium actually an issue?
- Poincare is advertised as being for "dynamical systems". There are many formulations of dynamical systems (ODEs, PDEs, DDEs, etc). Please describe the limitations of Poincare. It's not clear until the discussion that SDEs are not currently supported. It's unclear whether jump processes are supported.
- This ecosystem seems to compete with Julia, i.e. the similarities I see are JIT and language-centric (Python/Julia) modeling.
 - Do you have a comparison between your ecosystem and e.g. the SciML ecosystem?
 - Are you trying to bring Julia-style modeling to Python?
 - Please add some comparison to Julia, either in the introduction or discussion.
- The performance between Python and C++ backends is presented. It could be made clearer what exactly is "pure" Python. For example, it seems that the model definition is, but simulator itself is not, because pre-existing Fortran or C++ solvers are used.
- Some parts of the ecosystem seem to reinvent the wheel. For example Symbolite and Poincare seem to overlap considerably with SymPy symbolic expressions and ODE system representations. Why did you avoid SymPy? Is IDE integration is difficult with SymPy or symengine?
- Where is the API for the various ecosystem packages documented?
- Is there a specification for the model definition format available?
- The fact that events is not supported, is only provided as a reason for ignoring some models in your test. However, the limitations are important to state. Furthermore, there is an SBML test suite, which contains many models with annotations. Please check the ability of ecosystem to handle the SBML test suite, and report the annotations that work, and the annotations that do not work (for example, "events" are one of the annotations). It is important that users can read documentation to see whether their use case is supported, instead of having to try things themselves.
- Please describe how your numerical experiments were performed (computing hardware and software, number of repeats) and add standard deviation to plots, e.g. Figure 6A.
- Please explain if and how the model can include (symbolic) parameters which appear at multiple.location of the model. Can several parameter be changes centrally as e.g. necessary for parameter estimation?

# Minor feedback
- Page 2, Line 19: BasiCO might be a better example for Python+COPASI
- Page 2, Line 50: does "(the) global state" mean "the global scope"?
- Page 4, Line 48: perhaps change `pip install ` to `pip install symbolite poincare simbio`. e.g. `pip install poincaré` fails due to the accent, so the package name doesn't work directly
- Page 7, paragraph at Line 24: This seems to belong in the "Reproducibility and performance" section, or at least should reference Figure 6 to provide some evidence
- Page 7, paragraph at Line 31
 - "Species, which consists of a poincare.Variable and a stoichiometric number" -- how is the stoichiometric number associated with the species? To me, the stoichiometry enters at the `RateLaw` expression, which is as it should be, since species have different stoichiometries in different reactions
 - how do I write my own custom `RateLaw`, e.g. how do I implement `MichaelisMenten` kinetics myself? Please reference an example, e.g. in your docs.
- Page 8, Line 22: "demonstrated that SimBio reproduces the results with minor numerical differences depending on the solver tolerance" where is this demonstrated?
 - this claim is unsupported, please either add or refer to evidence, or add "(not shown)".
- Page 8, Line 33: "something that does not seem to happen with SimBio" This cannot be true for a solver, and it looks like the dependency starts to show at the larger numbers of evaluated time points. It is true that is looks very good for the SimBio solvers, though, and the choice of output timepoints is reasonable. Please clarify the statement anyway, since it cannot be true.
- Page 8, Line 37: "consider the trade-off between compilation and run times" -- what are the compilation times for the various NumPy/numba/numbalsoda-based solvers? Can you provide some suggestion for users, about compilation vs. simulation in your ecosystem?
- Resources section: describe or link to examples / documentation / format spec / API
- Figure 1(a): how would a non-autonomous system be defined?
- Figure 2 (top left): What is `b` for? Should it be in the equation for `e`, instead of `a`? I don't see the use case of using initial conditions like `a` and c` in the RHS of the ODE for `d`...
- Figure 2: labeling the arrows would help me associate the figure caption information to the arrows
- Figure 5
 - Upper: why is the syntax for loading an SBML or BioModels model different? i.e. `load` vs. `load_model`?
 - Lower: why is this table here?
- Figure 6, right: libroadrunner appears to approach the performance of SimBio numbalsoda at larger geometric mean run times. Do you have data for models that require longer run times?

- The syntax looks new and mostly well-designed, I would be interested in trying it out for my own work. There are some unusual things, to me at least.
 - defining a `Variable` with a function named "initial" feels weird to me -- why not use the class constructor? e.g. why not `x: Variable = Variable(ic=1)`? (see Figure 1A)
 - similarly for the derivative, why not use the constructor, e.g. `v: Derivative = Derivative(x, ic=0)`? (see Figure 1B)
 - The mix of syntax here is a little unintuitive for me. A different syntax could be `linked = Decay(ic=[1])` and `independent = Decay(ic=[2])`, and if I want to access `x`, something like `x = linked.variables[0]` or `x = linked.variables.x` would be intuitive to me. Of course, the "linked" loses its meaning, but why is "linking" useful? Is it useful to have multiple ODEs for a single state variable? Is this for PDEs?
 - Are there getters and setters? For example `Oscillator.x.name` appears in the text, to get the variable ID. Is there a `Oscillator.x.get_name()` and `set_name()` method, for example? Or is this not required, because the IDE integration raises errors if `x` is misused?

# Language
Please run some grammar/language checker over the manuscript, there are several issues. Here are some.
- some tool names, e.g. Symbolite/Poincare/SimBio are not capitalized everywhere
- Page 2, Line 50: does "(the) global state" mean "the global scope"?
- some tool names, e.g. Symbolite/Poincare/SimBio are not capitalized everywhere
- Page 5, Line 43: This statement is weird to me: "define higher-order systems by assigning an initial condition to a Derivative". This sounds like the initial condition is on the LHS or RHS of the ODE.
- Page 6, Line 50: "using numpy as a backward. This can easily be switched to other solvers." seems to imply that numpy is a solver -- please state the default solver.
- Page 7, Line 25: "big" and "long-running" are not defined. Big in terms of state variables or parameters or? "Long running" in terms of simulated time or CPU time?
- Page 7, Line 25: "however incurs in a compile time penalty" is awkward, rephrase
