This manuscript is written in a manner that is relatively easy to follow and clearly describes the Poincaré and SimBio tools. Unfortunately the wifi I am on keeps timing out when trying to install the corresponding python modules, so I wasn't able to directly test the code but good to see what look to be complete examples demonstrated and the associated documentation available.

Major comments:

While the manuscript is relatively easy to follow along, I think it does assume the reader is reasonably familiar with concepts that possibly are SBML-centric. As someone not particularly familiar with SBML, I need reminders to know what the difference is between a parameter and constant and other types of variables. The manuscript would likely be made more accessible if reviewed with a view to helping readers not familiar with SBML concepts understanding the entirety - or perhaps making the reliance more explicit and citing relevant background reading.

The authors correctly state: The inclusion of SBML support facilitates the effortless reuse of models created by the systems biology community, along with the vast collection of public models hosted in the BioModels repository. But the SBML support, or the indeed the support for exchange formats in general, seems limited to import only. Which makes sense when simulation of existing models is the main focus, but given the authors are highlighting the extensive integration with standard IDEs as one of the main benefits, they presumably have considered what will happen when users import an SBML model and then use Python to start manipulating the model. The presented approach could form a nice alternative to address the missing features mentioned for approaches based on DSLs if there was some way to export the models back to SBML or another interchange format. Focusing purely on simulation starts to negate the advantages presented by the authors in favour of a pure Python implementation.

In terms of a pure Python implementation, it does seem that there is a dependency on libSBML - presumably for the SBML import capability? Might be good to mention that as I was quite surprised to see it come up in the required dependencies when attempting to install with a `pip install simbio[io]`.

The authors might have seen the recent manuscript describing "SimService - a lightweight library for building simulation services in Python" (https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btae009). While that approach is largely based on wrapping existing simulation interfaces for use in Python, I wonder if there is anything relevant that might be worth discussing here, particularly relevant for the use-case of building up composite models which might require integration of multiple different simulation methods in order to perform a simulation.

The authors mention three different stages that were measures for timing results: loading; cold runs; and warm runs. But the specific stage(s) included in the presented results is not clear. I also wonder if that provides any insight into the fact that SimBio simulation run times are not impacted by the number of evaluation points - which is really confusing me and I can't understand it :) other that perhaps the load time is swamping the actual run times by orders of magnitude and therefore the gradual increase in run time is not being seen in the given plots.

Minor comments:

The manuscript has a scattering of typos and grammatical mistakes - a careful proof read of the entire manuscript would be beneficial.

In figure 1(c) - it is not clear to me where the name `y` comes from for the "independent" subsystem.